=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Test::Deep::Type - A Test::Deep plugin for validating type constraints

=head1 VERSION

version 0.005

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Test::More;
    use Test::Deep;
    use Test::Deep::Type;
    use MooseX::Types::Moose 'Str';

    cmp_deeply(
        {
            message => 'ack I am slain',
            counter => 123,
        },
        {
            message => is_type(Str),
            counter => is_type(sub { die "not an integer" unless int($_[0]) eq $_[0] }),
        },
        'message is a plain string, counter is a number',
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Test::Deep::Type> provides the sub C<is_type> to indicate that the data
being tested must validate against the passed type. This is an actual type
I<object>, not a string name -- for example something provided via
L<MooseX::Types>, or a plain old coderef that returns a bool (such as what
might be used in a L<Moo> type constraint).

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over

=item * C<is_type>

Exported by default; to be used within a L<Test::Deep> comparison function
such as L<cmp_deeply|Test::Deep/COMPARISON FUNCTIONS>.
As this module aims to be a solution for many popular
type systems, we attempt to use the type in multiple ways:

=over

=item L<MooseX::Types>/L<Moose::Meta::TypeConstraint>-style types:

If the C<validate> method exists, it is invoked on the type object with the
data as its parameter (which should return C<undef> on success, and the error
message on failure).

=item coderef/L<Moo>-style types:

If the type appears to be or act like a coderef (either a coderef, blessed or
unblessed, or possesses a coderef overload) the type is invoked as a sub, with
the data as its parameter. Its return value is treated as a boolean; if it
also dies with a message describing the failure, this message is used in the
failure diagnostics.

L<Type::Tiny> types fall into this category, and are fully supported.

=back

=back

=for Pod::Coverage descend
diag_message
init
renderExp
renderGot

=head1 CAVEATS

Regular strings describing a type under a particular system
(e.g. L<Moose>, L<Params::Validate>) are not currently supported.

=head1 SUPPORT

=for stopwords irc

Bugs may be submitted through L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Test-Deep-Type>.
I am also usually active on irc, as 'ether' at L<irc://irc.perl.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4



=back

* L<Test::Deep>
* L<Test::TypeConstraints>
* L<Test::Type>
* L<Test::Deep::Matcher>
* L<MooseX::Types>
* L<Moose::Meta::TypeConstraint>
* L<Moo>
* L<Type::Tiny>

=head1 AUTHOR

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Karen Etheridge.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
